# Restaurant Picker for the Indecisive

## Background:
The purpose for creating a restaurant picker assistant is to take the choices away when indecision gets in the way of meal time. The age-old question of “where should we go?” plagues not only individuals, but also groups of people when no one wants to be the one to make the decision. Taking the choice out of human hands can reduce possible conflict in this situation and simplify the solution. For an individual who can’t decide, possibly having waited too long to eat and becoming overwhelmed with hangriness to the point they can no longer decide where to eat. This selector can help them immensely by giving them an immediate answer and get them to increase their blood sugar as quickly as possible. Individuals with dietary concerns can also benefit from this program because it can quickly generate a list of options for them with options that accommodate their restrictions. Another potential result from this project would be exposure to local businesses that people may not know about, but would fit their criteria perfectly. This could be a benefit to these businesses, but the effects would have to be studied post implementation before this conclusion can be accurately drawn.

## Data:
For the purpose of the creation of this program, a temporary incomplete dataset is being used. Further experimentation with google maps scraping through the google api will need to be conducted to formulate a complete dataset for the area. The “dummy” dataset currently being used, which the final data set should reflect, includes the variables: name of the restaurant, address, latitude and longitude coordinates, price level out of 4 at the moment, customer ratings as an average out of 5, the total number of customer reviews, cuisine and type of establishment, attributes to describe the atmosphere, and hours of operation. A goal is to add dietary information to the dataset, though it does not currently exist in the dummy data being worked with. The variable information I have at the moment comes from a combination of google maps and yelp listings by using their respective APIs to scrape the sites. The coordinates and the name of the restaurant are the most important variables at this stage of the project for the purpose of being able to map the locations and display them on a map for the user. The other variables are eventually for the user to query their restaurant search by such as if they wanted to look for >3 star rating, Italian food.

## Progress and Next Steps:
Thus far the creation of a temporary dataset to work from has been accomplished. A database was started, but this step is being put on pause for the moment in favor of working with the dataframe already established. In the future a goal is to have the restaurant data in a database that can be queried from, but this may depend on the time available. The end goal would also be to have a more comprehensive dataset, but the preference is to have a working project and at least providing instructions for someone to get their own dataset for an area they were curious about using this program for. Code for the end visualization, a plotly map with the coordinates of the selected restaurant(s), has been started, and is in the process of becoming a more professional and clean looking result. Functions to query for cuisine type, atmosphere type, price level, and rating have been written and incorporated into the main function. More functions such as for distance and hours are in the process of being written, but will function very similarly to the ones already created.

### The Function: choose_rest()
1. If the data (csv located in this respository) is downloaded to the same place as the function is being run from, the function will have no trouble reading that data in since it is hard coded in at the moment.
2.  Takes optional arguments for ‘cuisine’, ‘type’, ‘price_level’, and ‘rating’

- ‘price_level’ needs to be an integer from 1-4 representing the level you are okay with paying, 4 being the highest and 1 being the lowest.
- ‘rating’ is a float from 0-5 for the average customer rating desired and above, 0 being the lowest and 5 being the highest
- ‘type’ is a string representing the atmosphere or other key attributes- Valid options include: ‘Bars’, ’Pubs’, ’Delis’, ’Fast Food’, ’Bakeries’, ’Cafes’, ’Tapas/Small Plates’, ’Diners’, ’Halal’
- ‘cuisine’ is a string for the desired cuisine type- Valid options include: ‘American’, ’French’, ’Southern’, ’British’, ’Japanese’, ’Greek’, ’Chinese’, ’Spanish’, ’Italian’, ’Thai’, ’Mexican’
